# bewd-assign-1
Repository for Back-End Web Application Assignment 1


Rationale:

This assignment was very interesting, in that I learnt alot of new theories and concepts relating to design and web development that is essential for my course. My intial thoughts regarding this assignment revolved around convincing myself that this would be the hardest assignment I had ever undertaken as this is the one of the first classes I have been introduced to code and back end work. Essentialy, for me this task was a bit of a hurdle, however I tried my best to persevere and overcome any obstacle that arose through the process, whether that be through rewatching Riley's tutorials, watching specific YouTube tutorials or by asking questions within forums. Ultimately, I am happy to a certain extent of what I have created and I am suprised by the capabilities that I have shown. However though, I kept track of all obstacles I wanted to overcome within my notes.txt file and I will admit there were some I was never able to get past. My main two would be the calendar that I wanted to make functional and the notification modal on the homepage I wanted to make a bit more interactive. Nonetheless, I believe that I did overcome more of my goals than I didn't overcome. For example, I was able to add certain css and bootstrap elements that I wanted, such as glyphs, buttons and other style elements. One interesting yet not helpful part of my site is that on the 'create.php' the due date input works how I wanted it to with a calender date picker however this only works on older computers and not my mac.

For me, the most difficult part that arose, was to connect my database to certain elements within my website, with the primary example of this being my calendar. A week before the assignment due date I was having troubles with siteground which I believe was through no fault of my own, so after two live chat sessions from siteground customer support and some additonal assistance from Riley and a classmate things begun to make a little more sense. I was able to access more of what I needed, however a majority of what I needed in order to submit my remote host was still unclear. Ultimately, this led to some stress and was overly a small obstacle that developed into a large one which took a long time to overcome. 

Further, my thought process throughout the journey of creating my basic web application was that i needed to focus more towards the fucntionality of the website before I attempted to style the site, which i believe was fairly counterintuitive as I realised the rubric had a section where styling was actually important for this assignment. Ultimately however, I was able to add most of my desired styling to create my first back end web application.
